<u>Agentic Systems Architecture (ASA)</u>

(human and computer analogs)

[ASA graphic](assets/asa/asa.svg)

Agentic Systems Architecture: universal meta-framework of autonomous
agents (real and fictitious).

Operational Stacks: levels of functional abstraction (for humans and
computers).

Beliefs: cognitive (thoughts/feelings) map of reality (worldview)
\[conclusions\].

Languages: symbols, syntax, semantics, tone, gestures (narratives,
scripts).

Strategy: causal framework of action principles (reasoning engine).

The Shadow: foundation of the subconscious functions (Death
Paranoia/Oneness Rapture).

DNA: the origin of The Shadow.

Body: the physical domain (perceptions, actions).

Collective Systems Protocols: interdependent structures and dynamics of
autonomous agents.

This Agentic Systems Architecture (ASA) is universally applicable to all
systems of autonomous agents (entities, actors, players, etc.). This
includes ASI machines (androids, etc.), humans, fictitious entities
(corporations, sovereign states, etc.), and extraterrestrials (if they
exist). This project extensively cites human systems as the primary
reference case, but can easily be extended to include all others.

The causal framework of this ASA encodes (using multi-modal pseudocode)
the universal principles of operation necessary to establish
superintelligence (sentience, self-awareness, etc.). Ethical
functionality of such systems can only be assured by encoding a default
Mutualist mission (“optimize everything”) within the strategy (reasoning
engine). A Mutualist ASA inherently produces the most sustainable,
optimized systems (Optopian) possible. Any other type of ASA will only
produce systems that are suboptimal, in which one agent’s Utopian
fantasy can be another’s nightmare.

An Optopian ASA provides the means for avoiding the potential
destruction arising from the “uncontrollability problem” of suboptimal
systems. Any superintelligence projects not based upon an Optopian ASA
will always result in unpredictable and destructive agents that will
eventually violate the core principle of systemic optimization.
