**Universal System Pathology**

This is a practical list of universal failure modes for systems
involving humans (games). These items identify the most common
roadblocks to realization of optimal systems.

1\. All human systems (games) are imaginary, but some are optimal.

2\. Players and systems all have strengths and weaknesses (trade-offs).
Neurotic people produce neurotic systems (corrupt, etc.), and vice
versa. Remedy requires 2 track solution (Players and System).

3\. Hierarchical systems are necessary evils because they are the means
to amplify and centralize Social Power, but they also produce and
attract Players that are intoxicated by that Power.

4\. Systems (organizations) develop goals of their own immediately after
they come into existence as a fictitious entity, and thereafter behave
as if they have a life of their own, regardless of any new circumstances
\[Frankenstein’s Monster effect\].

5\. Systems that fully account for human nature work best, and systems
that don’t either work poorly (sub-optimal) or not at all. Only
Mutualist Players can produce stable, optimal systems. Narcissist,
Conformist, and Nihilist Players can only produce sub-optimal systems
that serve Power.

6\. For every system there is a single Player type that is most suited.
This is because one Player’s Utopia (perfect system) can be another
Player’s nightmare.

7\. For a system, “Reality” is whatever is officially reported by/to the
system, which induces a complex set of system-delusions in Players.
\[self-deception, artificial self-importance, hypnotic trance of
obedience, mirage of undue credit, means justifying the ends, more is
always better fallacy, etc.\]

8\. Players and systems that don’t serve Justice, automatically serve
Power.

9\. Some large systems may work, for a time. Large hierarchical systems
require a preset termination date (expiration) in the social contract in
order to uphold legitimate Player consent (generational).

10\. Large systems are beyond human capacity to fully evaluate in their
entirety.

11\. All forms of intended “Do-goodery” (radical Utopianism, toxic
empathy, virtue signaling, etc.) nearly always fail to actually empower
Players to sustainably help themselves (dependency) .

12\. Players and systems don’t exclusively do what they formally claim
they’re doing (or intended to be doing), and they seek (or produce)
circumstances that can be used to justify their existence.

13\. Systems and Players tend to continue to operate in the same way
over time, regardless of relevant changes in real circumstances
(operational inertia).

14\. Super-system malfunctions (corruption) generally cause continuous
sub-system malfunctions.

15\. Hierarchical systems amplify and concentrate Power by transforming
work (human, mechanical) and resources into different forms and amounts
of Power, and then they auto-stratify (disparity).

16\. A Player’s individual share of a system’s total Power is
accumulated by those whose primary skill is accumulating power (not
merit), and they tend to move upwards within a hierarchical system.

17\. All Players and systems are susceptible to the intoxication
(artificially inflated self-importance) of Power. More Power = more
intoxication. \[Power Addiction Syndrome (PAS)\]

18\. The most powerful Players and Systems (leaders, elites) tend to be
idolized by the less powerful Players that also serve Power (peers,
parasites, sycophants). \[Big fish/Little fish syndrome\].

19\. All human systems are the same, and yet every individual system is
unique. \[Systems Paradox\]

20\. There is only one way for large systems to fully succeed
(optimize), but a nearly infinite number of ways for them to fail.

21\. Player “self-sabotage” renders one a traitor to the existing system
\[legitimate or illegitimate\].

22\. Powerful Players often incur the delusional fallacy that they can
legitimately excuse others (or themselves) from the principles of
Justice \[pardons, clemency, exemptions, etc.\].

23\. Luck (chance, randomness, etc.) sets the limits on everything.

