Universal Metrics for Optimization

The universal metric (performance) for all human systems is
“optimization”. A “Human System” is defined here as any system involving
humans (Governance, Economic, Legal, Cultural, Communal, etc.). Like all
systems, they have an optimum condition (state) of functional operation
(for purpose). Beyond this condition, no further systemic improvement is
possible (sub-optimal only).

Human System Optimization is defined by 4 simultaneous conditions.

First: no one (in the system) can be made better off (QOL) without
making someone else worse off.

Second: everyone (in the system) can’t be made better off (QOL) in total
(systemic aggregate).

Third: no one can be moved closer to the optimum (median QOL) without
moving someone else further away.

Fourth: the entire system is sustainable.

An optimal system is the ideal way to provide the greatest good for the
most people for the longest time. Sub-optimal systems all fail to
simultaneously achieve the optimum of these four conditions.

Human systems almost never evolve to an optimum condition, and therefore
require continuous management (leadership) to achieve and sustain it.
Since we can’t manage what we don’t measure, a complete framework that
encodes the underlying causality, structures, dynamics and metrics of
human systems is necessary. The metrics arising from such a framework
can be explicit or implicit. For practical use, the framework must also
be simple enough for anyone with average intelligence to understand the
meaning. This Handbook is intended to provide such guidance.

For any given system, the quality of the framework (strategy) utilized
for managing it determines the quality of the consequences produced.
Leaders (formal and informal) require a full understanding of human
systems, if they intend to realize optimum performance (systemic) in the
future. This is difficult because humans are seduced and intoxicated by
the control of Power (social), and generally become addicted to it. More
Power produces a greater addiction. Elites who possess control over such
Power become encased in a bubble surrounded by peers, sycophants, and
parasites, rarely utilizing a competent Devil’s Advocate for feedback.
This “Power Addiction Syndrome” is the natural enemy of optimization,
creating the most difficult barrier to any form of real systemic
improvement.

A governance system is a special type of human system because it is
given responsibility for managing the other human systems (and itself).
This intrinsic self-governing characteristic is unique to governance
systems, which produces a high susceptibility to corruption. Leaders in
a legitimate governance system ideally accept the highest level of
personal accountability for the performance of their system (community,
team, etc.).

This Handbook provides a complete, integrated, simple framework that
codifies the basic causality, dynamics and structures underlying all
human systems. The relevant metrics are both explicit and implicit.
Without utilization of such a framework to manage outcomes, sub-optimal
systems will nearly always be the ultimate result.

A full understanding of this framework and the metrics it provides,
usually requires an interactive dialog with someone who is already
competent in the concepts. It’s important not to become too focused on
the words, but rather on the meaning they convey. Basic skill in
scientific thinking (objective, empirical, etc.) is ideal for
understanding this framework.

All innovative new concepts are initially untested under real
circumstances, making initial implementation a risk that must be well
managed to achieve success. The ideal opportunity for implementing an
optimum system is a “blank slate” situation. Such opportunities are rare
in the current sub-optimal world order (Westphalian System of Sovereign
States). This is the first time in recorded history that all of humanity
has experienced a global system Inversion, making changes even more
difficult. There are no more frontiers (non zero sum games) left for
implementation (except outer space). Existing systems (sub-optimal) must
all therefore be repaired or replaced (ideally with minimal disruption),
in order to establish an optimal civilization for humanity going
forward.

Universal Metrics for Quality of Life (QOL)

1. Health (physical, mental, spiritual)

2. Love (belonging, sense of oneness, trust, etc.)

3. Balance (optimum, norm, median, middle way)

4. Truth (the most useful interpretation of reality)

5. Fun (play, enjoyment)

6. Luck (good fortune, favorable chance)

7. Autonomy (self-directed power/control/freedom)

8. Security (protection, privacy, peace, safety)

9. Work (productive labor)

10. Justice (systemic optimization, fairness)

The positive and negative ends of the spectrum for each one of these
elements are well known and can be applied to form the practical metrics necessary for
optimization.
