**Universal Justice**

Systems of Law (Rules) utilize some rationale for Justice as their
foundational basis, whether explicit or implicit. Justice itself, and
the systems of law derived from it, have evolved over the centuries.
These dynamics and structures produce a unified “Hierarchy of Justice”.

<img src="justice-hierarchy.png">

The “Star of Justice” is a useful model that integrates the 5 underlying
social principles, as well as the 1 existential principle of
“Randomness” (Fate, Luck, etc.). Constructing a universal System of Law
is therefore contingent upon utilizing the most objective (scientific)
rationale for Justice.

<img src="star-of-justice.png">

<img src="reciprocity.png">

<img src="compensation.png">

Luck (Chance, Fate, etc.) continuously effects every element in the
Chain of Consequences (Intention). Luck sets the limits on everything
(existence).

Equivalence: equality of Accountability and Authority (contextual
autonomy). Sovereignty and Slavery are universally illegitimate theories
of action in an optimal system. In mutualist relationships, an Entity
with greater Authority/Accountability automatically incurs a duty of
Stewardship for those with less (significantly).

<img src="equivalence.png">

<img src="consent-preconditions.png">

<img src="consent.png">

The Randomness principle of justice is simple and well known, and
becomes useful in cases when the Intentional Forms are unable to fully
ensure the goal of optimal outcomes. This can be utilized under various
circumstances, but is especially useful in deadlock (stalemate)
scenarios.

Universality: this simple principle indicates that Justice pertains
to all Players equally, at all times. Any exceptions (applied to self or
others) directly violate this principle. All theories of action based on
“identity” also directly violate this principle. They are both therefore
illegitimate actions for an optimal political system. Identity Politics,
Prejudicial (non-equal) Discrimination, and Selective Enforcement
(Tolerance) are common examples of direct violations because they’re all
antithetical to the meaning of Universality. Note: “separate is
inherently unequal” is a logical fallacy often encoded into Law, which
often directly violates Universal Individual Freedoms (human rights).

All conflicts between Players (including Warfare) are ideally resolved
through a resolution hierarchy. A full attempt by the parties involved
must be exhausted at the top level (tolerance), and only then proceeding
to the next lower level if that fails, and so on. Only the top 3 levels
of resolution can secure optimal outcomes. Avoidance (level 0) of zero
sum games, to the fullest extent possible, is the top priority for
preventing conflicts from spontaneously arising.

<img src="conflict-resolution.png">

<img src="rule-mgmt.png">
