Universal Resource Systems

Origins and Use of Resources are critical elements for determining
possession and control in any Governance System. Resources are “valued”
objects. Value, like beauty, is in the eye of the beholder. Wealth, is
the excess accumulation of Resources (or their References). Money: a
Governance subsystem based on exclusive reference to a pool of
Resources, which is divided into fractional shares (currency) to enable
Exchange transactions. Title: a Governance subsystem of exclusive,
specific references to Resources.

There are two types of system available for managing Resources,
Materialism and Sharing. Materialism is based upon competition
(conflict), and Sharing is based upon collaboration (cooperation).
Optimally, a Commons contains necessities. Sharing in a Commons can be
optimized by implementing an empirical ethic in order to ensure
efficient and effective operation.

Sharing.png

The precedence numbers represent the priorities for the “right of
possession”. A higher number is superior to a lower number (5 = highest,
1 = lowest). Any equal claim of precedence can be resolved in the same
way as other conflicts (Conflict Resolution Hierarchy). The burden of
proof in a Sharing conflict is on the new claimant, not the current
steward (possessor).

Production, refers to any increase in net value realized through labor.
Exchange, refers to any mutual, bilateral transfer of possession of
Resources (originated through Production or Exchange). Unearned, refers
to possession of “value” not acquired through Production or Exchange.
(Includes economic Rents, Natural Resources, Inheritance, Theft, Casino
Gambling, Asset Gambling, Investment, Speculation, Extortion, etc.).
Possession, refers to Custody for Use of a Resource.

Transactions.png

In the real system of existence (Cosmos Nullius), everyone owns
everything (+ form). Or conversely, no one owns anything (- form). It's
not possible to legitimately cast Cosmos Nullius Resources directly into
a Resource System other than as a Commons subsystem, without committing
an “original theft”.

Resource-subsystems.png

Upon casting (re-imagining) Resources into a Commons
\[nationalization\], the perpetrator of such an acquisition incurs a
“duty of stewardship” for those Resources and any consequences arising
from their acquisition. After legitimately casting the Resources into a
Commons, they may be allocated to and of the subsystems \[privatization,
nationalization, etc.\].
